---
title: Bathroom Remodel
date: 2020-01-12 15:15:00
tags:
- remodel
- bathroom
---
I only published two posts before an unexpected life event last year required all my focus, but that event is receding in the rear-view mirror, and even though the effects will still require attention for the foreseeable future we have resumed forward progress.  Just three days after returning from a wonderful holiday vacation, work started on a major remodeling project for the kids' bedrooms and bathrooms.  In the original form, the kids shared two bedrooms, a playroom, and a Jack-and-Jill bathroom. The playroom and the bathroom could only be accessed by going through the bedrooms.  Although we liked this layout when we we're deciding to buy the house, we know that the children will desire more privacy as they get older, so we decided to make some changes.  After repeatedly measuring the space and sketching out options, then meeting with several contractors, we finally figured out a workable plan that should achieve our goals with the minimal amount of changes, work, and expense. 

Our final design involves two parts.  First, by closing the wall between the two halves of the bathroom and stealing a corner from the adjoining bedroom we're able to make a 3/4 en suite bathroom for that bedroom.  Next, by reducing the size of the vanity in the other part of the bathroom, and also giving up about a foot of width in the other bedroom, we can make a hallway to give direct access to the playroom, thus making it usable as a bedroom.  Because the bathroom will open to the hall, the new configuration should be more suitable for guests. After the renovation, the smallest bedroom will be approximately 10 by 12 feet, which I hope will be adequate.  Similarly, the bathrooms will be small but adequate--each seven and a half feet long, with one five and a half feet wide and the other four and a half feet wide. 

The consensus among the contractors who gave us estimates was that the project would probably take six week, but we should be ready for it to take eight.  We moved the kids' mattresses into the master bedroom and relocated our bed to the guest room.  Our contractor brought a team of two on Monday morning, and they've been making quick progress: first demolition, then framing and electrical, and on to drywall by Friday.  A crew came in on Saturday to rough in all the plumbing connections, and completed their work in just a few hours.  The tile guy will start on Monday.  After such a smooth first week, we have high hopes that everything will be done two weeks from now. 

Changes in bedroom arrangements can be disruptive, but the most stressful part of the process has been making choices about fixtures and finishes.  Our contractor's daughter does design consulting as a side hustle, and we've been thankful for her help choosing vanities, tile, shower fixtures and sink faucets, lighting and mirrors. When we were feeling stressed while in the floor store, she assured Jenny that it would turn out well no matter what, which helped a lot.  Because if item availability or changes between the expected and actual measurements, we haven't been able to stay with our original choices for everything, but we've found acceptable substitutions quickly enough so as not to cause any delays.  We're trying to be mindful of the budget while still choosing items that are durable and will present a cohesive image, but so much feels like guesswork.  We'll find out when it's all done. 

Our primary reason for making these changes is to improve the way we interact with each other in this house every day.  However, we also hope that by adding a bathroom and increasing the number of bedrooms, the value of the house increases commensurately with the investment.  By the time we sell, probably many years from now, it might be hard to determine how much of the change in value will be due to this renovation.  It will be something I notice every day, because the first thing I see upon leaving the master bedroom will be a hallway instead of a door. I hope it will be a hallway that leads us happily towards the future. 
