---
title: Mending Fences
date: 2020-07-05 14:55:00
tags:
- yard
- maintenance
- diy
---
Jenny and I have been re-watching *Downton Abbey*; one theme that resonates with me more now is the stewardship obligation Lord Grantham feels towards the estate.  Although it plays out on a much smaller scale, our house has a history that precedes us and a future that will continue after we have moved on, and it is up to us to take care of it in the time that we're here.  Doubtless we will leave to the next owner some amount of deferred maintenance, but we can try to minimize that burden.  Of the projects that we've known about since before we moved into this house, several are still outstanding.  Luckily, there haven't been any sudden events that have caught us off-guard, so we've been able to address them at our convenience.  And this weekend, with an extra day off for Independence Day, I decided it would be a convenient time to fix the fence.

We have a rustic split rail fence on both sides of the back yard, with attached wire fencing that was primarily used to keep the previous owners' dog contained.  Four of the fence posts were leaning precariously due to rotten bases and were kept somewhat upright only by the rails nailed into them and the wire stapled to them.  When we first moved in and had some work done, we asked a handyman service to give us quotes for some other projects including fence repair, and the estimate they gave us for that was high enough that I decided that for what was mostly labor requiring no specialized skills, I would rather do it myself (eventually) than pay that price.  Although the urgency has been growing as the sagging fence has become more noticeable, and there have been times in the last year that I was ready to start the project, appropriate replacement parts are sometimes hard to come by.  I don't know if that's because fence repair is a seasonal activity or just that this type of fence has gone out of style.  Not long ago I was updating my to-do list and wanted to add links to fence posts that I expected to be out of stock, but discovered that what I needed was in stock nearby and could be delivered that week, so I put in an order.

In anticipation of this project, I had picked up a wood-handled manual post hole digger at a yard sale some time ago.  I knew that it would take time and effort, but hoped that I would manage to dig out the holes I needed with this simple tool.  After spending two or three hours attacking the first location and only digging a hole half as deep as I needed, I realized the folly of my hubris: although the old fence post had rotted through in the few inches below the dirt, it had been buried in a hole that was two feet deep, leaving more than twenty inches of solid, unrotted fence post that had to be extracted.  In retrospect, I'm surprised that I was able to chop up as much of it as I did before abandoning that approach!  Jenny let the neighbor who shares the fence know that it was going to be more than a one-day project.

The next day happened to be Independence Day.  That morning, I rented an auger from Home Depot, opting into the damage protection service that I would normally decline because I recognized the significant possibility of things not going according to plan.  It was a good thing I did!  The auger did have enough power to grind up the fence post and make the hole, but controlling it while that was happening wasn't easy.  At some point, the throttle got stuck in the "on" position, so it would start spinning as soon as I turned it on and continue until I managed to hit the kill switch, which wasn't easy because I had to move one of my hands to reach it, and controlling a moving auger with one hand was not an easy task.  With my diminished ability to control it, the auger got away from me and chewed up part of the fencing wire attached to the fence rails, which in turn tugged on the already weak corner post adjacent to the area where I was working and pulled it loose.  I exchanged the auger for a different one with a working throttle and, having learned some lessons from the first fence post, dug out the remaining four holes (including one for the newly-broken corner post) without any other incidents.

Unfortunately, I had only ordered line fence posts which are not suitable for corner placement.  I was unable to find a corner post in stock nearby, but didn't want to leave this project undone.  Fortunately, corner post holes are much smaller than line post holes, so I came up with the ingenious plan to buy a standard 4x4 piece of pressure-treated lumber, then cut it to length and drill out the holes by making multiple passes with a one inch bit.  It wasn't perfect, but the plan worked out well enough, although my drill battery wasn't prepared for the task and did force me to take a break while it charged.

With that corner post in place, I realized that I had made a significant mistake when placing one of my holes; it was four inches over from where it needed to be.  Because I no longer had the auger, I resorted to the manual post hole digger and an axe to reposition the hole.  By this time, I was physically exhausted and mentally worn down by the work, but the goal was so close that I persisted.

Although all the posts and rails are in place, there is still work to do before I can declare the project completely finished.  I need to detach the parts of the fence wire that are still attached to the old fence posts, and re-attach it to the new fence posts.  I broke my hammer while doing that, but have now replaced the hammer and will finish the project soon.