---
title: In the Garage
date: 2020-02-15 16:41:00
tags:
- remodel
- diy
- garage
---
In contrast to the big professional remodel that we undertook upstairs, we have gradually worked on several DIY projects in the garage.  Although the garage isn't on public display, and nobody spends as much time there as in a bedroom, we do transit through it several times every day, so we want it to be pleasant and functional.  The primary purpose of a garage is to serve as storage--for cars and bikes, but also for any number of things that are used rarely, often seasonally.  There is always some tension between questions of of whether we should increase the raw storage capacity, reorganize to be more efficient, or reduce the need for storage by getting rid of things.  So far, we have mostly used the first two strategies, because Jenny does a good job of not letting things get into the garage without a good reason.

That said, before we made too many changes that would result in having more stuff out there, Jenny wanted to repaint. She didn't like the base color or the dingy condition it was in.  I didn't think it would make much of a difference so I wasn't as enthusiastic about the project, but eventually she prevailed, and we spent a couple of weekends and long evenings wiping down the walls and repainting in a basic white.  It didn't take long for me to realize that Jenny's desire was well-founded; the fresh coat of paint really made a difference.  During the bathroom remodel, the plumber decided it was best to cut into the garage ceiling to run the new pipes, and afterwards the workers fixed the drywall and repainted a major section of the ceiling, which we appreciated.

In its original state, the garage had one small shelf next to the house door, a ShelfTrack system in the far corner, and a pegboard on the back wall.  We added a refrigerator pretty early on, and its top became an additional de facto shelf.  After building freestanding shelves for the basement, we were able to transfer additional wire shelves up to the ShelfTrack system, where I use them for tools, repair supplies, and other family handyman items.  What we lacked, however, was storage for medium and large items.

For a while, I would take note of what kind of storage options our neighbors and friends had in their garages whenever I got a chance.  Eventually, I decided to add three sixteen inch deep, eight foot long shelves in between the peg board and the refrigerator.  For the shelves, I purchased one standard sheet of nice plywood and had it sliced into three equal pieces at the Home Depot cutting center.  I added a front lip brace to each shelf made out of a 1x2 strip, which improves the look and should keep the shelves from sagging over time.  Attaching the brace was harder than I expected, mainly from challenges in keeping everything in position over the full eight foot length using only my own two hands. I probably would have had an easier time with better clamps, but ended up both gluing and screwing everything, which made a mess but is holding up so far.  The shelves are each placed atop three heavy duty brackets screwed directly into studs, starting at six feet high, with two feet of space between each.

When I do projects around the house, the garage becomes the workshop and main staging area.  After enough of them, I was tired of always doing the work on my hands and knees because I lacked a work bench, and convinced I would use a bench often enough for it to be worth losing a bit of floor space.  I thought about the quintessetnital DIY project of building one myself, researching different plans and preparing lists of materials and trying to figure out a convenient time, when one day a suitable candidate appeared on Craigslist.  It was nearby, priced less than my estimated material cost, and bigger than what I had planned. I snapped it up.  Now the challenge is to keep it clear for project and not let it turn into another storage shelf. 


