---
title: Kitchen Counters
date: 2020-01-26 15:52:00
tags:
- remodel
- kitchen
---
The kids' bathroom remodel, a major project that we intentionally contracted out to professionals, is quickly approaching its conclusion.  The plumbing is all done, the tile is in, and all the drywall is hung and painted.  We're waiting for a shower door and a vanity, but as of yesterday we've all moved into our own bedrooms.  It won't be fully finished until we put down new carpet, but the existing carpet will do for the next few weeks until the wallet recovers some, or at least doesn't sting as much.  There's quite a contrast between this and the first project we did upon becoming homeowners, because it took much longer but covered a lot less ground.

Before we bought this house, Jenny said there was one dealbreaker: tile countertops in the kitchen.  She didn't like the look and didn't like the prospect of trying to keep all that grout clean.  However, we didn't want to take on an expensive project before we had even moved into the house, all the more so as we had already decided to have the whole house professionally painted, which took up a big chunk of the available capital we had after making the down payment.  To get to yes on buying the house, I had to figure out a DIY option for the countertops.  After reading many DIY blogs and home remodeling tutorial videos, we determined that concrete was the most viable way to cover existing countertops in place and, most importantly, Jenny thought it could look good if I did it right.  I  didn't have the tools or expertise to build forms and pour self-leveling concrete in one fell swoop, so we found a kit that involved building up layers, and required only paint brushes and rollers to start.

The process required several layers, and we have a lot of counter surfaces, so for a couple of weeks after we closed on the house but before we moved in, I would drive over to the house, turn on podcasts or the radio, and try to make as much progress as possible before I got too tired or it got too late.  Looking back, it was a lot of effort and stress.  The first couple of layers were a bonding substance that also served to level out all of the surface variations.  That was followed by thin layers of concrete, then eventually color and the sealant.  Working on the flat parts wasn't too hard, but the vertical edges including the backsplash took a disproportionate amount of time.  Even so, the results on the edges are far less even, but that's okay because they aren't used in the same way.

Three years later, the concrete counters have held up extremely well--they haven't stained or deteriorated, they still look nice and are easy to wipe down and keep clean.  There are a couple of spots where you can see a tiny corner of tile if you know what you're looking for, but I've mostly forgotten where they are.  The kit that we used is no longer manufactured, so I wouldn't be able to do the project again.  When we do remodel the kitchen many years from now I'm not sure that we'll stick with concrete, but it is unique and has gotten positive comments from our guests over the years.