---
title: Squeaky Van
date: 2019-08-25 09:36:00
tags:
- car
- diy
---
During a recent trip to visit Jenny's family, we went on a day trip to a Safari Park.  It was the kind where you take tubs of animal food with and drive along a dirt road, feeding the exotic wildlife as you go.  The llamas are pushy, but the buffalo make it clear that when you feed them, they will take all of the food, and the tub too.  We all wanted to travel together, so we filled up all the seats in our van, which meant that I ended up sitting in the back seat with two of our children.  I had driven more than seven hours the previous evening, but we set an early wake-up call so we could get to the park right when it opened, so I hoped to get a little more rest in the car.  However, there was one thing that kept me from that goal: the persistent squeaking sound that the van has been making since not long after we bought it.  It's always been annoying, and I had been extra sensitive to it during the previous day's drive, but being so close to it, in my state of fatigue, I resolved to diagnose and resolve the problem.

While the van was under warranty, we had asked the service center about the squeaking sound several times.  At some point, they fixed one problem--I think it was a loose part in the sliding door assembly--which did help, but it soon became clear that there was another source of the unwelcome noises.  Otherwise, it's been a great vehicle for us: totally reliable, good air conditioning, plenty of room for us and cargo; but driving around with a squeak that makes the whole experience feel cheap, as if important parts could fall off at any moment.  Jenny took the van in just before the warranty expired to ask them to take one more look at the problem, but when she went on a test drive with a service technician, the squeak did not make itself heard, and they said that they couldn't try to solve it without more of a lead.  Our best guess was that it was less likely to occur when it was cold outside, which it was on that day.

It was certainly warm enough on the day of our trip to the Safari Park, and the roads were somewhat windy and occasionally a bit rough, a combination that caused frequent squeaks while I was in the back seat.  I became convinced that the problem was in or near the liftgate, and even formed a more specific hypothesis about what could be happening.  When we arrived home, I opened up the back and grabbed the metal loop that the latch closes around; as I suspected, it was loose!  Although I couldn't make it squeak just by moving it around, I was convinced that I shouldn't be able to move it at all, so I hoped that fixing that would eliminate the squeak.

I don't know much about cars, but I was motivated to fix this problem in the hopes that we could have a squeak-free trip home.  Turning to youtube, I found out that it was actually pretty easy to remove all the interior molding from the liftgate; it's mostly held in with plastic clips, not screws.  Gently tugging the pieces in order, each in the right direction, I quickly was staring at the metal innards of the liftgate.  I tightened up the two screws that held the latch loop in place.  Despite worries about breaking the retaining clips during reassembly, I gently pushed the molding pieces back into position, and it ended up looking almost exactly the same as it did before I started the repair.

Since that day, we have had no more squeaks.  Jenny doubted that it would work at all, and probably still doesn't think that the repair will last.  However, now that school is back in session, it's more common for her to be in the car without passengers, and she says that she appreciates not having her train of thought interrupted by the squeak.