---
title: Wet Basement Saga
date: 2021-01-17 14:22:00
tags:
- repair
- diy
- basement
---
About a year ago, just after we returned from our Christmas vacation, Jenny noticed a musty smell in the basement.  She tried to isolate and eliminate the odor, but it just wouldn’t go away.  We hypothesized that the old HVAC system might be causing the problem and had it serviced, but there was no improvement.  We didn’t discover the real problem until a few months later when the children were playing with Legos on the floor and Kate came up to complain that her clothes were wet.  We went down to investigate and found a large section of the carpet was, indeed, damp.  We realized that it was likely to have been caused by the recent heavy rains, but also immediately knew that this would be beyond our power to fix.

We called the contractor that had recently finished our upstairs remodeling project and he came to evaluate the situation right away.  The first thing he noticed was that our downspouts were draining right next to the foundation, and recommended burying a drain pipe so that they would release much further away.  We took him up on the offer.  The crew also remediated the mold and mildew problems downstairs: they pulled the built-in bench away from the wall, cut away waterlogged drywall, carpet pad, and insulation, and cleaned the affected surfaces.

That seemed to fix the problem, at least until the next storm.  A few hours after the rain, a steady drip would appear, from water that would collect along the brick, then condense on a blob of spray foam insulation in that area before dripping onto the bottom plate of the framing.  It was clearly much better than before—it always dried up pretty quickly, and never would have been enough to get out into the carpeted area—but we didn’t want to close things back up until the problem was completely resolved; even a little water, over time, would eventually cause the mildew to return.

We invited several other contractors to give us proposals to solve the problem.  They mostly agreed on what the issue was: a gap had opened in the finger space between the poured foundation and the brick facade, and there was hydrostatic pressure behind the nearby retaining wall that was sufficient to cause this gap to be a path of least resistance.  Despite the similar diagnoses, they had a very different ideas about how to fix the problem: one suggested a sump pump, another recommended attempting to dam off the finger space, and most of them recommended some amount of additional exterior waterproofing.  The most surprising thing, despite the different recommendations, was that all the quoted prices were almost identical.

In the end, we were most convinced by our current contractor’s theory of the case.  He thought that the best thing to do was to attempt to further reduce the amount of hydrostatic pressure by adding a french drain along the exterior of the houe behind the retaining wall.  That sounded better than the sump pump, in no small part because installing a sump pump would require us to rip up all the walls in that area and figure out how to house the above-ground apparatus, and that just didn’t seem to be warranted in order to resolve what was now a very minor drip.

By that point, several months had passed and we were tired of the downstairs eyesore.  The kids had adapted well enough; it wasn’t too hard to relocate their lego table, but even for them the situation wasn’t ideal.  We went ahead with the french drain installation and waited for the next storm.  When it came, I was disappointed—the drip was still there, maybe slightly less, but not by enough that it was obviously noticeable.  It was still the same after the next round of rainfall.  The contractor came back out and suggested drilling some weep holes near the base of the retaining wall; he said that they should have been included when the wall was built, but that adding them now wouldn’t compromise the wall, and they just needed a good drill with a long masonry bit.  But before we could schedule his crew, we had two more storms after which, for the first time, the interior stayed bone dry.  My best guess is that the ground just needed some time for the residual water to finish draining before the effectiveness of the french drain could be fully appreciated, or at least that’s what I hope.

I had been looking for a project to work on while taking time off for the winter holidays, and decided that I was ready to fix the wall, replace the bench, and stretch the carpet back into place.  It’s been a while since I’ve done any drywall work, and it shows.  However, since it’s all going to be covered by the bench and the baseboards, I didn’t have to make it perfect.  Stretching carpet was a new activity for me, and it was something that I wouldn’t want to do very often, although I’m reasonably pleased with the results.

I still have a few finishing tasks: caulk the corners of the baseboard, fill in the nail holes and apply paint, but overall I’m happy with how it turned out.  Even though I doon’t love it when the kids leave their toys out, it is gratifying to see an elaborate arrangement of matchbox cars and plastic army guys ready to go to battle in that area that, until recently, had been unusable for almost a year.